[MTA-6525] Conceptual overview of Solution Server and LLM Integration (#395)
migtools/mta-documentation: docs/topics/developer-lightspeed/con_solution-server-and-large-language-model-integration.adoc

:_newdoc-version: 2.18.7
:_template-generated: 2026-07-29
:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT

[id="solution-server-and-large-language-model-integration_{context}"]
= Solution Server and large language model integration

[role="_abstract"]
To build a shared organizational memory of code fixes, review how the Solution Server integrates with your large language model (LLM). This integration provides context-aware resolutions for complex migration issues.

== Collaborative workflow

The Solution Server is an independent backend component that builds a collective memory of your migration projects. Your editor extension communicates directly with the large language model (LLM) or routes requests through an LLM proxy. The Solution Server evaluates your accepted and rejected code changes to extract additional insights and resolution patterns. It feeds these insights back to the extension to enhance the prompt context for future LLM solution requests.

> {mta-dl-plugin} uses Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG). RAG produces context-based resolutions for issues in your code. By using RAG, the extension improves the context shared with the LLM. 

Author: ```suggestion
By using Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG), {mta-dl-plugin} produces context-based code resolutions. The context improves as developers accept more migration fixes over time.
```
